# ML_CKD_Detection 

Title of Paper: Comparison of machine learning algorithms for classification analysis, with application to Chronic Kidney Disease

Abstract: Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) corresponds to a progressive loss in kidney functions. The main deaths are caused by the failure to predict the disease at an early stage. In the healthcare industry, machine learning (ML) algorithms are mainly used for classification and regression analysis. Such models often require tremendous amount of training, however the data is usually scarce and small inducing sporadic effects on model performance. Our work bridges this gap by following a framework comparing models suited for small data in classification of Chronic Kidney Disease data sets.  The objective is to investigate various machine learning algorithms and find the best classifier to identify patients having a Chronic Kidney Disease on a provided data set. This research also explores situations were the data is small, and how to improve a classifier in such scenarios.
In order to assess the specifications experiments are run for Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF), Naïve Bayes (NB) and Decision Trees (DT) models. A multiple runs and a surrogate approach were applied followed by a specific focus on the Decision Tree classifier because of its ability to optimise feature vectors.
The Random Forest model was able to correctly predict CKD at an accuracy of 0.989 along with Support Vector Machine outperforming other classifiers. Although the SVM model is accurate on large data set it does not perform well on smaller ones, where simpler model achieve substantially better results such as Naïve Bayes and Decision Trees. The proposed framework combined with DT allowed to define a performance threshold of 0.80 for a data set limited to 40 samples and 3 features. The cost of clinical measurements associated to it were reduced from $421 to $30 showing the importance of features reduction.
Finally, the practical significance of this work allowed to determine the best algorithm for Chronic Kidney Disease diagnosis with a novel methodology for handling limited data set using Decision Trees.  
